that if you have a couple of dorms,
the girls, you could put your girls in there, or you
could put your girls in faculty housing, or if
you're really at your worst case, put them in a
motel somewhere. There weren't many motels.
There were one couple across this highway there.
It made the weekends very, very, very special
because of the femininity. You did appreciate the
femininity. And after war the new look would come
in and I learned then that you don't have to show a
lot of flesh because we walked behind these girls
in their hips.
shape, you know, broad where a girl should, well,
broad where a broad should be broad, and this
thing, this, the curves of the girls were, and the
older, and the dressing up, and... Now, during the
dance, was liquor allowed in Sabisa? No, no, no, I
don't think so. You might have, they may have snuck
it in. Yeah, and did anybody smoke inside during
the dance? I don't think so. I don't think they did.
I don't think so. I mean, I didn't smoke. What were
Aggies smoking in those days? Campbells. I'd walk
a mile for a Campbell.
Hellmell, if you were trying to smoke long ones.
Lucky Strike. Lucky Strike Green. Scalding War.
World War II. Did Aggie undergraduates smoke
pipes much? I don't remember. Cigars? I don't
remember. Chew tobacco and snuff? Not much. I'm
not saying nobody did, but I don't remember. And
when they drank, where did they go to drink?
They'd get bottles. Of course, you'd go up to the—
Whiskey bottles. —the oftentimes the
roadhouses, wherever you go, to Onyx, where—
Onyx. Onyx. That's a new—where was it? It was on the
north side of Bryan. you know, where the
producer's co-op is. Just at that crossroad.
Okay. Just as you look at it. Where Highway 21 is
now. Highway 21 and then the crossroad there over
in that area. There was another across the street
there.
that year, and I was trying to get some of the local
things here. Right. Now, when the air base was in
operation, there were some places for sin out
there. Were they still going after the war? Not as I
recall. Okay. Of course, the famous Uncle Ed's.
Uncle Ed's. But I never went out there. That was
beer, wasn't it? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, they didn't
have to get their bottles. They had bottles. They
had to get them from somewhere else. And then
Whiskey Bridge... Yeah. Going towards Snook.
Yeah, and you bring your own bottle, buy a Coke, 25
cents a Coke with a Coke smell and a custom nickel.
Get ice and you mix your drink to the table. And
jukebox music. And doing basically the Texas Two
Steps and that kind of dancing out there. Had you
and your buddies ever heard of drugs? No. Well, I'd
heard of marijuana, but it was a weird thing. I
mean, you know, marijuana. Had you ever seen
anybody smoke it, though? No, no. Another
difference is that a concert to me was a big
orchestra with violins, and you're going to
listen to Tchaikovsky and things like that, and
you sit there, and you put on Best Bib and Tugger,
and you go in there, and it's culture, high
culture. A concert, if you go to a concert, as you go
to a concert, it's high culture, not... They rock
concerts that afternoon. And we had very, very, he
went to very, very few concerts a week. I did go to
one because I love Norman Rowe. He played, and
Xavier Cougar played in Guyon Hall. Just played
music, you know, when he was here for a dance on
Sunday afternoon or something like that. And went
to that. Did any notable American heroes come?
Eisenhower came to graduation one time. Did
everybody turn out?
It wasn't a big deal. Did he say or do anything that
was special to Aggies? He was a pretty low-key
individual. Because I don't remember Truman ever
coming. No, I can't. Bradley, Patton, I don't
remember any of those. To me, to imagine that at one
time Boltshaw Ballet made its home in A&M is an
oxygen. A&M was the last bastion of male
chauvinism in my era. I mean it was different and we
were proud of our difference and we were not
cultured. We didn't pretend to be cultured, but we
enjoyed life and we were where we were. As far as you
knew, after the war, in the student dorms, were
there still the same kinds of pranks and jokes and
good bull? Yeah, maybe worse. But among you
veterans, that didn't occur? No, no. We had grown
beyond that. Did you all go to silver taps, you
veterans? Yeah, I think, yeah. Had it changed
because of the experiences that some of them had
had during the war? I don't think so. I went to one
muster. It was a very low key, low thing over in
front of what we called the administration
building there. There weren't many people there.
Had you and your buddies heard about the muster
that was held on Corregidor? I was pretty alert.
This is a note to the typist. I understand that one
of the reasons for that muster being held was that
the
leadership on Corregidor wanted to get the word
out about the survival of as many people as they
could and therefore for these Aggies to have
muster and to call the roll. was one way of making
that known. I understand that was one of the
reasons why they encouraged that muster.
Let's talk about the student body in general.
What were their attitudes? Where were they from?
Why did Aggies pull together? Was there a
similarity in the background and attitude? Yeah,
that's right. I inferred that when I went to the
Marine Corps. I was in with a whole different,
asymmetrical
group of people. I mean, thieves, filthy, I mean
absolutely filthy talking, acting people,
people talking about venereal crabs and things
like that. I don't even know if I've heard of that
kind of stuff. It just was totally different. But
we were all kind of the same type of people. Small
town,
generally from the middle, I would say, middle
class to upper middle class. So there were some
people of wealth here. Not too many. Most of them
would go to Texas.
I'd like to diverge here and go and compare my
mental image, which I shared with Richard Michael
Brown, of the Texas schools at that time,
particularly the Southwest Conference schools.
SMU was the school for the children of the Bjork
dealer and the Coca-Cola dealer. of Marshall and
all the places. TCU was the school of the good old
boys of West Texas, kind of middle-class,
down-to-earth people. Texas was the
establishment school. The movers and shakers of
Texas went there. Rice was the intellectual
school. And Aggie, Baylor was the Baptist
restricted school. dancing on campus and all
that. A&M was the other sort, the baser sort in a
way. Rough and ready, not much culture in the sense
of anything else. They're people who were
intended to build Texas. Correct me if I'm wrong
about Aggies. If the definition of conservative
means change slowly. Aggies were conservative.
Aggies were conservative. And
did they... They're not against change, but
conservative before you do it. Right. In terms of
where they came from geographically, were they
comparatively representative of pretty well the
whole state? They were urban and country and small
town? As I said, we had students from Houston,
Lamar, and high school. We had students from
Highland Park. We also had them from Woodrow
Wilson in Dallas that I knew. And we had them from
Austin High School in Houston. We had them from
Thomas Jefferson. We had them from Hallowell
Heights, which was probably one step ahead,
socially, culturally, than Jefferson. But
Rocking Ridge and Simple Catholic. Protestants
and Catholics and Jewish? Protestants and
Jewish. Yeah, and the Jews were mixed right in. I
mean, many of my classmates, most active
classmates, I discovered I didn't even think of
them hardly then as Jewish. What were the keys for a
student then to become accepted as a part of the
group at A&M?
Be able to roll with the punches. Do their share. Do
their share. Flexibility.
Show affection.
And when I say that, to this day and age, you may
think I mean sexuality. I don't mean that at all,
but that you care somehow about your buddies. that
you share with them.
Let's talk a bit about what builds Aggie spirit.
Why are Aggies so proud? What is it that creates
that spirit? Why was there a band of brothers going
into after Normandy when the airborne went in and
suffered through that. Why does the Marine Corps
put people through very rigorous boot camp and
harass them and haze them just as bad as they do
here? There is something in sharing of suffering
that we have a shared experience of ardor, of... We
paid a price at that time. I'm afraid they'll lose
it when the price doesn't have to be paid anymore,
though I think it lingered down. And strangely,
the people I think that have it the greatest today
are the girls at A&M. Strange that they have more
adulation for the Aggie spirit than do guys do.
Now, do these things like muster, bonfire, silver
taps, final review, do all of those also add to this
pulling together? The thing, and I regret and I
hope, somehow, not on the scale, I'll be frank with
you, I blame the administration a little bit for
the bonfire catastrophe. As an Army officer,
there would never have been such a project without
a safety officer. Mm-hmm. I will guarantee you
that there should have been a construction
engineer taking off one course and put out there to
supervise that thing. There should have been
people out there to see that trunking was not
permitted, adult human beings. The one unifying
thing I see about university, and I told it at a very
small school where the president always talked
about the university not being universities, but
megaversities. that was unifying to A&M was the
ability of any student at A&M to come and share in
this common task of building that bonfire. Now,
they came after my time, I agree. But I still think
it was a good thing. And I hate to see it go that they
can't go out with supervision and cut the logs and
do it and not be able to take a cable off without
somebody knowing, as they did do. I think the
bonfire is a very unifying thing that you could see
it go up, you could participate in being, and then
you could share, and it's burning. And I think it's
very good. I get the distinct feeling, I'll be
honest, I get the distinct feeling that the
administration uses the traditions as long as for
the benefit of the university, and the
administration quite often.
But when it comes to cross purposes in any way, they
don't make any accommodation. I'm being real
honest as a former student, and sometimes I feel
like they use things that I hold very dear, if you
understand. From way back when my brothers, I
mean, standing in the Corps of Cadets as a 12, 13,
14-year-old kid, I thought they got to be very,
very, very dear to me. I got imprinted as you were.
And I mean, as I said before, I knew academically I
should go to that school over there. But I came to
A&M for social and cultural reasons, assuming I
would get a college education and believing that I
could be self-taught to some degree. All right.
You graduated in the spring of? 49, June of 49. All
right. But because you had started when you did,
what class? 48. Your class, that's right. Aggie
never loses his class. That's right. All right. So
when did you buy your ring? As soon as I could. 2750.
2750. Where'd you get the money? Had you saved it?
Well, no. I was on GI Bill. Two things happened.
First, I got a GI bill, and then I had a contract, got
$20 a month. GI bills started at $40 and then went up
to $70. I started at $50 a month and then $20 for my
contract a month. And then when the contract ran
out, I was sports editor of the battalion, and my
colleague, we have a mutual admiration society,
and I will share this with you. He went in and
bearded the Roman being to get us paid. So we
started getting paid $20 a month for being our dog,
the sports editor of the battalion. Now he admires
me because our cadet colonel walked in one time,
Bob McClure, with his boots on and all his diamonds
on and everything else, very impressive looking,
and said in the springtime that we were paying too
much attention to things like track and baseball
and things like that. We ought to write more about
football. And he says, I told him, and I don't
remember this, but he says, I said, McCrory, you go
back and run the Corps, and we'll run the sports
page at the target. Thank you. And I said, this is
their time to participate. And football has a
fall, and we'll write about it. It wouldn't have
spring training or something, but this is
baseball track season, and we're going to give
them that publicity. And they have a right to it. So
you go run the Corps, and we'll run the sports page.
Thank you. Goodbye. How important was the GI Bill?
Was that a good expenditure of federal money? Oh, I
think fantastic. Fantastic.
Now, you probably would have gotten your degree
anyway, but... My parents would have. I was
invited to... But a lot of others would not, would
they? Oh, yeah, yeah. My mother and father would
have paid. I didn't want to ask them for any money. I
wanted to be independent at the time. I was invited
to join Sol Ross when they reorganized... after
the war, but for two reasons, three reasons.
Number one, I had a reputation before the war of
being a hard-drinking bunch, and I didn't want to
do that. Number two, I didn't want to spend, I was
spending a lot of time on the battalion and doing
things. I didn't want to spend that time in the cell
of Ross, whatever they did. And number three, I
didn't think I could afford the uniform, though
had I told my mother that I'd been invited to be a
member of the cell of Ross, she would have sent me
the money in a moment. The RVs. The RVs. Ross
Volunteers. Ross Volunteers, yeah. When you put
that ring on for the first time, do you remember how
you felt? I'm pretty calm. Other... Have you ever
lost it? Oh, yes. This is my second one. Where'd you
lose the other one? In a moment when the Army
disappeared, one of my wife's rings in my ring
disappeared. We were moving from Dallas to
Abilene. And no story about... No. All right. I
hadn't been ever... Have you ever been someplace
unusual where somebody spotted that that was an
Aggie ring? Most unusual thing that ever happened
in the life of that, not that particular, but I was
in Paris in 19... 51 bachelor in Paris, staying at
this small hotel. There was an English planter
from Kuala Lumpur, Malaya, there. And my son says I
was in psychedelic drug stuff. Couldn't tell him
what we did. And nothing unclean, nothing I
couldn't share with my wife or anybody else. But he
told me something. That's what I heard at one
university in the United States. And I said, yeah.
He said, what's that? I thought he'd expect to say,
Harvard or Yale or Stanford or some school called
Texas A&M. You ever heard of it? Yeah, I've heard of
it, but it was in agriculture. And you'd heard of
A&M over in Malaya. But nobody ever did that.
Regular Army, you know, the Army, it was supposed
to be, pardon my wife, ring knockers.
But I... One good thing, I was as confident and as
satisfied with being a Texas Aggie as they were
with being West Portland graduates. I was never
jealous. I just read this. Paul had made some
derogatory remarks the other day about the
academy graduates. And I don't understand it. I
mean, hey. I don't either. What? I don't, I mean,
I'm, hey, I'm proud of my school. Sure. I expect
them to be proud of their school. Yes. I expect
people from Texas to be proud of it. When I went to
the Marines, I was shocked that people were not
proud of their state that they were from. Did you
buy senior boots? No, for reasons. Number one,
because my mother would have bought them for me.
But I was trying to do everything on my own. I'm very
generous, to be honest with you. But my legs were
very, very big. And senior boots at that time cost
$70. That's a lot of money. Yeah, a lot of money. I
knew in normal that practice was you buy senior
boots and then you sell them. But with my leg size I
didn't think I would be able to sell them. Nobody
would fit, they wouldn't fit anybody. And number
two, you only wore them on special occasions. And
hardly you wore them. The senior wore them in
quarter shoes. I wasn't, didn't stand out for not
having senior boots. Did anybody ever tease you
about not having senior boots? So that at final
review and things like that, those of you who
didn't have senior boots just went on.
We were coming out of the Depression, and people
understood not having a lot of money. I mean, we did
not live in an affluent society as we live in today,
where people could afford a lot of things. As you
were getting ready to graduate in the spring of
1949, How did you feel about how well you were
prepared for the future?
I felt very well. I felt I had three options, at
least three. Number one was the Army, which I
expected to do. Number two was teaching school. I
had a temporary certificate. And number three, I
thought I could probably get a job in writing
sports. Pretty good writer. Did any special
family and friends come to commencement? when you
graduate? No, my brother and I graduated all by
ourselves. My parents were in Germany. Okay. My
aunt didn't come, no. We were 2,500, biggest
graduating class any of it ever had to that point.
Where was the commencement held? Caulfield in the
end zone at Old Horseshoe. Who was the speaker, was
it? I don't remember. It was Anna, I wasn't sure I
wanted to graduate. I had another, I thought I had
another semester at GI Bill and Gee, I could use
that somewhere, do something, you know. But then I
thought, well, you've got to get on the cold world
sometime. You might as well go ahead and die. Was
every hand shaken and every name called? You
walked across the stage. Yeah, I walked across the
stage. See, most schools don't do that. I think
that's an extremely important, good, positive
last step. And
they pronounced your name correctly and handed
you a diploma. Yeah. My brother and I graduated at
the same time. He was three years older than I. He
dropped out and came back, dropped out and came
back, and he said, boy, he must have really loved
A&M. He entered it about four times. As you look
back, what did you learn at A&M that has been
important to you in your life? Be interested in
other people. Whip out. It doesn't cost a nickel to
reach out and say, my name's Bob Spodey. And you
take out your hand. If they don't tell you your
name, you say, can I have your name, please?
Haskell? Whatever. Where are you from? What kind
of work do you do? Be interested. Most people
want to be approached and ask those things.
I was an introvert. People find that hard to
believe when I was in high school. But doing that,
the Army also helped, and being a Christian
helped. Being interested in other people helped.
As I said, the only time I went to church was when I
had a blind date, generally speaking.
And I'd have to do something Sunday morning. I'd
say, honey, not honey, I'd say, Alice, after the
dance is on Friday night and Saturday night, I'd
say, you know, what do you want to do tomorrow
morning, Alice? Go to church. So I went to almost
every church in College Junction, Catholic,
Methodist, Church of Christ, all over the
Northgate side. And there. Let me, one thing that
you don't know is... getting
my regular armed commission.
I was my last semester, Colonel Boatner was the
PMSNT. Hayden L. Boatner. And son, noted military
historian.
I got noticed or appeared before a board over at the
YMCA building. I was, then I was finished by ROTC, I
was a civilian, I was wearing civilian clothes.
And I walked over there, got there early, I wanted
to scout out the situation, get to feeling
comfortable in it. And I expected a board, like a
board of officers, people sitting behind a table,
and me on the other side, sitting in a chair. And I
got up there early, I looked around the corner, and
here were these three officers sitting in lounge
chairs, in there, and they saw me looking around
the corner, and said, I just want to come on in. And I
me handed in, I didn't report. I just thought this
was a social conversation. It was a day after, it
was a Wednesday after Truman upset Dewey in 1948.
That was the day it was. And Colonel Olsen, our
branch senior instructor, had said, when you go
before that board, the Army's looking for people
who are definite. You can say anything you want to,
but be definite about it. And don't say, I don't
know. don't be wishy-washy and I thought we were
having this nice social and they said like Haskell
how do you explain Truman defeating Truman doing
Walter Lippman didn't know at that stage nobody
knew what happened and I said I don't know what do
you you know I'm a student in college how am I
supposed to know why he won why he didn't win And
they said, do you have a girlfriend? I said, no, I
don't. They said, why not? Well, I know, and I knew
then, but certain things you hate to articulate. I
could have given them a different answer. Number
one, I knew I wasn't ready for marriage and didn't
want to date a girl and leave a girl alone when I
didn't want to get married. And at that age, I was
22, if you date a girl seriously, she's going to be
thinking in terms of marriage anyway. And I just
wasn't at that stage. You can't say that. So I said,
I don't know. Well, they turned in a pretty
unfavorable report to me over to Colonel Boatman.
I got an auditory report to Colonel Boatman. And I
dug a grave a little bit deeper with him. I went in,
and he said, I said, you didn't really impress him
with your board meeting. And I said, no, sir. And he
said, and I went through this a little bit. I didn't
go about the girlfriend or anything. Then he said,
you were in the Marines. I said, yes, sir. He said,
who was your company commander? I said, well, sir,
I was in the battalion headquarters company, and
we never saw our company commander. I know our
first sergeant, I saw him in formation, but never
saw the guy. I don't know who it was. I'd have worked
with Lieutenant Kelly. And well, who was your
battalion commander? Well, it was a Colonel Wade
or a Colonel Dunn, and the S3 was a Major Wade or
Major Dunn. And I could have been fair to him. I
said, well, one of those two. He said, well, you
weren't very alert, were you? And
I said, well, sir, and I thought I'd make some
points with this Army colonel. I dug it. I said,
well, sir, I was anxious to get back in the A&M. I
really didn't think very much of the Marines, sir.
And he said, well, when I was in the Marines in World
War I, I thought they were a pretty fine outfit. And
I said, And then he said, and then he started to find
questions. What's the range of a mortar or a
scissor? You know, all the technical stuff. And I
spit that back at him. And finally he said, well,
Colonel Lawson would recommend you. I'll go ahead
and recommend you to the Red Army Commission. So I
did. I got it. But he was a bulldog. Colonel Malloy
and Colonel Bolton.
Let's see.
If you were a consultant to the A&M leadership
today, about the future of A&M, what would be the
key points of the advice you would give them?
That's a good question. Right off the top of my
head,
do whatever it takes. to commit.